Add Ghost analytics tutorial (#9598)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/tutorials/ghost-analytics.mdx

---
title: "Quick start: Ghost analytics and session replay"
date: 2024-10-11
featuredTutorial: false
author:
  - danilo-campos
tags:
  - product analytics
  - web analytics
  - session replay
---

import Snippet from "../docs/integrate/snippet.mdx"

With all the drama in the world of WordPress, it’s a great time to explore Ghost, a robust blogging and newsletter CMS. You can [self-host](https://ghost.org/docs/install/) Ghost on your own server, or lean on managed hosting from [Ghost.org](https://ghost.org).

> However you host, adding PostHog for [web analytics](/docs/web-analytics), [product analytics](/docs/product-analytics), and [session replay](/docs/session-replay) is a quick process that gives you immediate insight about how people are finding your site, enjoying your writing and exploring your archives. PostHog accounts are free, so sign up and follow along.

Reviewer: 1. We are oxford comma people :)
2. We generally don't refer to "PostHog accounts". Instances, projects, or just "PostHog" is fine: 
```suggestion
However you host, adding PostHog for [web analytics](/docs/web-analytics), [product analytics](/docs/product-analytics), and [session replay](/docs/session-replay) is a quick process that gives you immediate insight about how people are finding your site, enjoying your writing, and exploring your archives. PostHog is free, so sign up and follow along.
```

## Adding PostHog using Ghost’s code injection

Grab the PostHog snippet from [your project settings](https://us.posthog.com/project/2/settings/project#snippet):

<Snippet />

> If you'd like to get person profiles for every visitor, update the value for `person_profiles` to `always`.

Reviewer: This is sort of a confusing statement on its own. If I was coming here fresh, I would think "what's a person profile?" Unless it is necessary for the rest of the tutorial, I would probably remove it.

Maybe you can add a new section on identifying users once they sign up? Not necessary though.

Author: Fair enough! Complicated by that prophylactic iframe business, so I'll just nuke it

> In your Ghost publication’s settings, click the Settings button, labeled with a **gear icon**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In your Ghost publication’s settings, click the settings button, labeled with a **gear icon**:
```

![Ghost settings menu](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/ghost_settings_e1f6c4b436.png)

Scroll toward the bottom of the sidebar, looking for **Advanced**, and select **Code Injection**. Open the code injection setting:

![Code injection menu in Ghost](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/code_injection_menu_66fa301caf.png)

Paste the PostHog script into the **Site header** code block:

![Ghost code injection settings](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/injection_field_87c4475be8.png)

> Click **Save**, and you’re all set. Explore your blog to generate some activity, then have a look around your PostHog account to see the results.

Reviewer: Do you need to publish the site again?
```suggestion
Click **Save**, and you’re all set. Explore your blog to generate some activity, then head to PostHog to see the results.
```

Author: Seemingly not, Ghost seems to handle that under the hood for you as changes are made.

![PostHog analytics dashboard](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/analytics_e7d33fb290.png)

> Hit the web analytics tab to see the basics, including your top-performing content in the paths report. Channels will show you high level traffic sources. Use the retention report to see how often readers are coming back once they find you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hit the [web analytics tab](https://us.posthog.com/web) to see the basics, including your top-performing content in the paths report. Channels will show you high level traffic sources. Use the retention report to see how often readers are coming back once they find you.
```

> If enabled, session replay will give you a look at real reader behavior through your site. Click its tab to explore replays.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once setup, you can enable session replay in [your project settings](https://us.posthog.com/settings/project-replay#replay) under **Record user sessions** to give you a look at real reader behavior through your site. Click [its tab](https://us.posthog.com/replay/home) to explore replays.
```
